Instructions for building and running grib2olam (GRIB to HDF5 converter)

1. First edit include.mk to match your computer system. 

As with OLAM, a recent version of HDF5 with Fortran 90 wrappers is required.
When compiled with Fortran support, HDF5 installs a script called "h5fc" or
"h5pfc" that calls the Fortran compiler and links in the proper HDF5 library
and Fortran modules. This should be used for the Fortran compiler F_COMP.

Wgrib2 needs the Jasper and PNG libraries, which are available on most LINUX
systems. Modify include.mk to point to the location where these are installed.

The variables HDF5_LIBS and HDF5_INCS should be left empty when using the HDF5
wrapper script "h5fc" or "h5pfc". HDF5_LIBS and HDF5_INCS are only needed if
F_COMP has been set to a Fortran compiler (such as "ifort"), in which case you
will have to manually set the necessary HDF5 libraries and the location of the
HDF5 Fortran modules.


2. Compile the executables by simplying typing "make". This compiles grib2olam,
the grib decoder "wgrib", and the grib2 decoder "wgrib2". Each can be compiled
separately by typing "make grib2olam", "make wgrib", and "make wgrib2".

Wgrib and Wgrib2 were obtained from NCEP from:
ftp://ftp.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/wd51we/

Wgrib was modified slightly to allow easier piping of the grib data into
grib2olam. The version of wgrib included here is required for grib2olam.

Although grib2olam can use the standard wgrib2 executable, in order to make
the compilation easier the wgrib2 included here was modified slightly to
remove some unneeded features and external libraries. If wgrib2 is already
available on your machine, you can use an external wgrib2 by setting the
variable wgrib2_exe in the namelist DGRIB_IN.


3. For running grib2olam:

 Type grib2olam -? for help:

 Usage: grib2olam [-f namelist_file] [-g gribfile] [-t yyyymmddhh] [-h hh]
        namelist file name defaults to DGRIB_IN
       -t : data time to process - yyyymmddhh
       -h : forecast hour - hh
 
            If c_date or c_hr set to '99999999',
            the date/hour of the first record
            in the grib file will be used.
 
       Command line arguments will override the namelist!


4. Edit DGRIB_IN (or a namelist file by any other name) to choose 
   the variables from the grib file you want to process. Example
   namelists that should work for the NCEP GFS model, CFSR reanalysis,
   and the ECMWF ERA reanalysis are provided.
   
   For the NCEP Reanalysis files, the 3D variables are typically:
   
   nvar3d=5, var3d='UGRD','VGRD','TMP','HGT','RH',

   For some formats of ECMWF files:
   
   nvar3d=5, var3d='U','V','T','Z','R',

   There are sections in the namelist for providing the variables in
   the grib file that correspond to SST, seaice, land/sea mask, snow mass, and
   soil temperature and water. The landmask variable is optional and
   only makes the degribbing process easier. If a variable string is
   empty, then that surface field will not be degribbed.
   
   If you are uncertain which variables are on the file, use:
   
   wgrib -s "grib-file-name"   or:
   rams_wgrib -s "grib-file-name"
   
   
5. Run "grib2olam". If you use the command line arguments, these will override 
   the settings in the namelist.


Various assumptions are made:

- If a variable begins with an "R" it is assumed to be relative humidity 
  in percent, thus is converted to fraction.
  
- All pressure levels that are found for the first "var3d(1)" are used.

- The variables are written to the Ralph file in the order they are specified. 
  Make sure they are in the order of "u,v,t,z,r" if using for RAMS.
  
  
